# machine-learning
Final project for STOR 565 - Machine Learning

Predictive Policing is a great topic for machine learning exploration; however, I acknowledge that the use of it in the field is inherently racist and reinforces racial biases in the criminal justice system. 

Predictive policing is used in law enforcement to identify potential criminal activity by utilizing mathematical and analytical techniques, namely machine learning. In this project, we used a dataset consisting of 120,000 crimes that occurred in Durham County during the past few years with predictors such as latitude/longitude and time of day. Using the original dataset, we cleaned the data by formatting and grouping crimes by similar factors. Given the existing latitude and longitude variables, we created new classifiers of each crime that attributes the crime to certain major areas in Durham, such as Duke University or the American Tobacco Campus. Then, we used both the old and new variables to answer questions such as: what time of the day certain crimes are most likely to occur, what areas of Durham are most prone to certain types of crime, and if there are groups of crimes that are similar in time and location. 

To investigate these questions, we used a number of machine learning techniques; namely linear models, logistic regression, LDA/QDA, classification trees, and clustering methods. Due to a number of factors, such as lack of diversity and quantity in the predictors, test errors for many of our methods were high. However, we did find that location was not a significant predictor in crimes and that crimes tended to occur during the day, with the exception of vehicle crimes. For future analysis, more diverse variables such as criminal demographics and income level of locations would likely prove more useful (in addition to our current predictors) in predicting crime time, type, and location.

